    1. (20 pts) Answer the following questions regarding computer networks concisely:
        (1) What is the length of the IPv4 internet address (in bits) ? (1 pt)
            Answer: 32 bits
        (2) Is Internet routing protocol capable of providing delay guaranteed service? Explain the reason. (2 pts)
        (3) Is Internet routing protocol capable of providing bandwidth guaranteed service? Explain the reason. (2 pts)
        (4) What is the meaning of offered load? What is the meaning of throughput? (4 pts)
        (5) What is the main service can the DHCP (dynamic host configuration protocol) server provide? (2 pts)
        (6) Identify the main function provided by DNS (Domain Name System) protocol. (2 pts)
        (7) Two hosts, Hosts A and B, are connected by a single link of rate fi bps. Suppose that the two hosts are separated by d meters, and suppose the propagation speed along the link is p meters/sec. Host A is to send a packet of size I bits to Host B. Then, (a) express the propagation delay of the link. (2pts) (b) determine the transmission time of the packet. (2pts)
        (8) Assume that a company has a IP network with network ID prefix: 140.124.3.0/24. The network administrator of this company wants to further divide such a network into 4 subnets with 60 hosts for each subnet. Then, (a) what are the subnet addresses for those 4 subnets? (2pts) (b) what is the subnet mask for those 4 subnets? (lpt)
    2. (10 pts) For each one of the following questions, please select the right answer (a), (b), (c), or (d).
        (1) For the following statements about red-black trees, please justify the CORRECT statements. (2 pts)
            i. A subtree of a red-black tree is itself a red-black tree.
            ii. The sibling of an external node is either external or it is red.
            iii. There is a unique (2, 4) tree associated with a gIven red-black tree.
            iv. There is a unique red-black tree associated with a given (2, 4) tree.
                (a) i, ii
                (b) ii, iii	
                (c) i, iv	
                (d) iii, iv
        (2) Let A and B be two problems. Suppose that we were able to establish the following fact:
”If we could solve A in time O(T(n)), we could solve B in time O{n log n + Ten)).”
Which one of the following statements is TRUE? (2 pts)
    (a) IfA has an n(» log n) time lower bound then B does too.
    (b) If B has an f2(n log n) time lower bound then A does too.
    (c) If A has an f2(N) time lower bound then B does too.
    (d) If B has an D(ii2) time lower bound then A does too.

        (3) Given a set S of characters (A, B, C, D, E, F, G} with relative frequencies (13, 7, 27, 18, 8, 22, 5). Let T be an optimal Huffman code tree for S. What is the depth of tree T? (Note that the root is at depth 0) (2 pts)
(a) 4 (b) 5 (c) 6 (d) 7

        (4) As the above problem (3), what is the length of the Huffman code for character E? (2 pts) (a) 5 (b) 4 (c) 3 (d) 2

        (5) A bipartite graph G = (U, is an undirected gr whose vertices can be partitioned into two disjoint sets Ki and P2 = —fi with the property that no two vertices in Ki are adjacent in G and no two vertices in P2 are adjacent in G. Which one of the following statements is FALSE? (2 pts)
    (a) A tree is a bipartite graph.
    (b) All bipartite graphs are 2-co1orable.
    (c) A bipartite graph can contain an odd-length cycle.
    (d) Given a graph @ of size o, one can determine whether Q is bipartite by using BFS in O(n) time.
    3. (10 pts) Mark by T(true) or F(=False) each of the following statements. You don’t need to prove it.
(1)	3Zi3 + 7N = f2(n2) (2 pts)
(2)	N / log2o = O-(n3) (2 pts) (3)		o) = O((/(n))2) (2 pts)
    (4) When deleting a key from an AVL tree, at most one restructuring operation can restore the height balance property of the binary tree. (2 pts)
    (5) The operation insert() on a priority queue realized by a sorted list takes linear time. (2 pts)

    4. (15 pts) Please answer the following questions concisely. You do not need to provide the details.
        (1) Find the asymptotic upper bound (using Big-O notation) for Ten) — 3T(n - 1) + 2 with F(0) = 1. (3 pts)
        (2) Let B be a binomial tree of size 29. Please draw the shape of this binomial tree.(3 pts)
        (3) Please write the following infix expression in postfix form: (3 pts) ((2 • (4 — 1)) — (3 + 1)) + ((6/3) ^ (2 + 4)).
        (4) Suppose that we have a complete binary tree represented by the following array, where each cell of the array contains a key value. Please draw this complete binary tree. (3 pts)


        (5) A I-ary tree is a tree of which each node has at most k children. What is the maximum number of nodes in a k-ary tree of height h? (3 pts)

    5. (6 pts) For the following questions regarding process management, please indicate whether each statement is true or false. If a statement is incorrect, please explain the reasons. (not just correcting the errors)
        (1) Shortest job first (SJF) scheduling algorithm will not result in starvation. (2 pts)
        (2) The major performance gain from adding additional CPU cores to an application is mostly determined by the number of cores. (2 pts)
        (3) A multithreaded program using multiple user-level threads can achieve better performance on a multiprocessor system than on a single-processor system. (2 pts)
    6. (4 pts) What are the ideas of linked and indexed file allocation methods? Please compare their differences, and give at least one example in real file systems.

    7. (4 pts) Among the following statements about memory management, please indicate whether each statement is true or false. If a statement is incorrect, please explain the reasons. (not just correcting the errors)
        (1) Pure paging has the problem of external fiagmentation, while pure segmentation has the problem of internal fragmentation. (2 pts)
        (2) With demand paging, it’s possible to run more programs that are larger than the physical memory. (2 pts)

    8. (6 pts) Regarding the following questions about information security, please indicate whether each statement is true or false. In the case of false statement, you must explain the reason why it’s not correct. (not just correcting the errors)
        (1) To make cryptosystems safe, the implementation details of encryption and decryption algorithms should not be made public. (2 pts)
        (2) As a digital signature, the message signed by the sender’s private key can be authenticated both in terms of source and data integrity. (2 pts)
        (3) Using public-key cryptography, it’s easy to encrypt a message, and computationally infeasible to decrypt a message. (2 pts)

    9. (5 pts) Given the three major goals of computer security: Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability, please explain their meanings in detail, respectively.

    10. (20 pts) The following problems are intended to investigate your understanding of the relationship between data hazards, control hazards, branch execution in a pipelined processor with a five-stage pipeline (Figure 1):
    [1] IF-Instruction fetch
    [2] ID-Instruction decode and register fetch
    [3] EX-Execution or calculate effective address
    [4] MEM-Access  data memory
    [5] WB-Write back to registers

